---
layout: post
title: What I Wish I Knew When I Was 20
category: reading
---

p(date). 2010-11-13

周末抽空把"What I Wish I Knew When I Was 20"大致看了一遍。因为是英文模糊版，所以稍微有点吃力。

bq. 《真希望我20几岁就知道的事》讲述蒂娜教授17岁的儿子即将进入大学，她意识到自己没能教给儿子足够的知识和技巧融入这个社会，取得成功，所以她回忆了自己20岁时想了解的事情——那些可以避免弯路和失败的宝贵经验。她从念神经科学的学生，到管理咨询行业的先锋，到斯坦福管理风险投资和创业项目的主管，职业经历丰富，有非常多可以分享和教授的精彩内容。 她写出了自己半生的职业实践和开战励志课程积累的经验，列出清单，举出大量的“创造性思维”的实例，给了自己的孩子一堂含金量最高的课：创意决定人生，突破规则，才能在千万人中脱颖而出！现在她举出为斯坦福大学、西点军校的学生讲解这门课程，帮助他们更顺利开展职场之路，掘得人生第一桶金。

本书的核心思想：突破传统框架的限制，细心发现，另辟蹊径，总能找到一条出路。对于各行各业想要有所作为的人多少都会有帮助，简单摘录了几段。翻译不到位还请见谅:)

----

look at the world around them with fresh eyes, identifying opportunities in their own backyard, challenge tradition assumptions, in doing so generate enormous value from practilly nothing.

_细心观察周围的世界，找出潜在的机会，挑战传统的方法，通过这种方式可以让你获得宝贵的财富，即使之前身无分文。_

opportunities are aboundant. at any place and time you can look around and identify problems that need solving

_机会是很多的，任何时间和地点，只要细心观察，总会找到需要解决的问题。_

regardless of the size of the problem, there are usually creative ways to use the resources already at your disposal to solve them.

_无论问题的大小，总是可以利用有限的资源，通过创新的方法来解决。_

an entrepreneur is someone who is always on the lookout for problems that can be turned into opportunities and finds creative ways to leverage limited resources to reach their goals.

_一个企业家总是尽最大努力将问题转变成机会，并且通过创新的途径和有限的资源去达成目标。_

we often frame problems too tightly, and don't step back and look at the problem more broadly.

_我们总是会被问题本身框住，而不会后退一步，从更远的角度去看待问题。_

we strive to create "T-Shaped people", those with a depth of knowledge in at least one discipline and a breadth of knowledge about innovation and entrepreneurship that allows them to work effectively with professionals in other disciplines to bring their ideas to life. No matter what their role, having an entrepreneurial mind-set is key to solving problems.

_我们致力于培养"T型"人才，那些至少精通一门领域，并且对其他领域也有独到的理解，有企业家精神，可以与其他领域的专家高效合作，然后把想法付诸实践。无论他们是什么职位，什么角色，企业家思想是解决问题的关键。_

the key to success is the ability to extract the lessons out of each of these experiences and to move on with that new knowledge.

_成功的关键是从失败中吸取教训的能力，同时把这宝贵的经验运用到下一次的实践中。_

we aren't taught to embrace problems. we are taught that problems are to be avoided, or something to complain about.

_没有人教我们享受问题。我们总是被教导要避免问题，或者时不时地抱怨一下。_

we can challenge ourselves every single day. that is, we can choose to view the world through different lenses - lenses that allow us to see problems in a new light. the more we take on problems, the more confident and proficient we become at solving them.

_我们每天都可以挑战自己。我们可以换一个角度看待这个世界，看到这个世界的问题。越是频繁地与问题打交道，就越有搞定问题的信心。_

if we clearly define a problem, the solution will logically present itself.

_如果我们能很清晰地定义一个问题，解决方法往往也会一跃而出。_

interstingly, in many cases those who are on the front lines are so used to the problems they experience every day that they don't even seen them, or can't imagine radical approaches to solving them. (problem blindness)

_有趣的是，很多情况下，那些天天与问题打交道的人，会对问题熟视无睹，或者没有一个有效的解决方法。_

assumptions are sometimes so integrated into our view of the world that it's hard to see them. however, with a little practice, it becomes a useful to look at your options in fresh light.

_有时"下意识"会深入到生活的每个角落，以致我们完全对其忽视。但是，只要稍加练习，就会从新的角度去看待它们。_

problems are aboundant, just waiting for those willing to find inventive solutions. this takes acute observation, coordinated teamwork, the ability to execute a plan, a willingness to learn from failure, and creative problem solving. but the first requirement is having the attitude that problems can be solved.

_问题是无穷无尽的，只是在等待那些愿意找到解决方法的人。这需要细致的观察，团队配合，计划的执行能力，愿意从失败中吸取教训的心态，和创新的问题解决方式。但首先要具备的心态是：问题总是会被解决的。_

we define ourselves by our professions, our income, where we live, the car we drive, our education, and even by our horoscope. each definition locks us into specific assumptions about who we are and what we can do. we always make our own prisons, with rules that we wach create for ourselves, locking us into specific roles and out of an endless array of possibilities.

_我们通过职业、收入、住所、汽车、受教育程度、甚至星座来定义自己。每种定义都限制了自己所能做的事。我们总是把自己关在自己建造的监狱里，遵守着自己给自己制定的规则，把自己限制为某个角色，于是我们失去了更多的可能性。_

if others think your ideas are crazy, then you must on the right track.

_如果别人认为你的想法很疯狂，那你基本上就在正确的路上了。_

one of the biggest obstacles to taking on "impossible tasks" is that others are often quick to tell you they can't be accomplished. once you decide to take it on, it is equally hard to break out of traditional approaches to solving it.

_完成那些"不可能的任务"最大的障碍之一是，别人往往很快就告诉你，你做不来的。一旦你决定去做，要不按常理出牌也一样困难。_

one of the most important rules to brainstorming is to expend upon the ideas of others. with this approache, at the end of good brainstorming session, multiple people feel that they created or contributed to the best ideas to come out of the session.

_头脑风暴最重要的一点是，扩展别人的想法。这样，一个有效的头脑风暴，大部分人都会觉得最终的想法多多少少和自己有关系。_

rules are often meant to be broken: don't ask for permission, but beg for forgiveness.

_规则常常是用来违反的：不要请求授权，但求事后原谅。_

there are often creative ways to work around the rules, to jump over the traditional hurdles, and to get to your goal by taking a side route.

_总是会有创新的方法来搞定规则，放弃那拥挤的主路，通过路边小道来达到你的目标。_

the world is divided into people who wait for others to give them permission to do the things they want to do and people who grant themselves permission. some look inside themselves for motivation and others wait to be pushed forward by outside forces.

_这世界上有这么几拨人：一拨等待别人授权去做事想做的事，另一拨给自己授权。有些人挖掘自身的激情，有些人寻求外部的压力。_
